To begin with, I don’t think we need all of RxNorm in SOLOR just yet… please disagree with me if you know of a PRODUCTION PROCESS that would be 
disrupted by removing most of RxNorm from ISAAC. If not, then I only want two types of concept to move from Nebular to SOLOR: TTY = IN and TTY = SCDC.

 

1)  Create a new concept called “RxNorm Ingredients” with whatever are the required attributes and metadata for SOLOR.

2)  Make “RxNorm Ingredients” a child of (is-a, or ISA, or however we spell it in ISAAC) SNOMED CT 
    5032532f-6b58-31f9-84c1-4a365dde4449 Pharmaceutical / biologic product (product)

3)  Make every RxNorm concept having TTY = “IN” a child of “RxNorm Ingredients”.

  a.   TTY “IN” simply means that concept represents an Ingredient.

4)  According to RxNav, those IN concepts are connected to other concepts with a TTY = SCDC (semantic clinical drug component) via a 
    relationship called “ingredient_of)” or in the inverse direction “has_ingredient”.

  a.   We will use is-a instead. Make each SCDC is-a child of one or more IN concepts, and each instance of that relationship should correspond 
       to an RxNorm ingredient_of relationship. We DO NOT NEED the original RxNorm relationships in SOLOR at this time. It is possible that a given 
       SCDC will have more than one parent this way… combination drugs. It’s also possible that SCDCs have relationships that we are ignoring right 
       now (e.g., to TTY = MIN) concepts

    b.  Now, the hierarchy should look like this

        i.  SNOMED Pharm / Bio Product
          RxNorm Ingredients
            Ingredient 1 
              SCDC 1
              SCDC 2
            Ingredient 2
              SCDC 3
              SCDC 4
              
              
              
The only “concepts” we want in RxNorm are selected RXN atoms distinguished by their RXCUI, everything else is at most a description.
But you still have two RXN atoms to deal with. In the example you give, the “concept” is the TTY = IN. TTY = TMSY means “TallMan synonym”, 
which is a display form used to try and help people distinguish similar-looking drug names by capitalizing the important letters so they 
don’t make errors in prescribing or dispending. So, that’s also a description. The only TTYs we will ever make concepts out of (at least 
in the next year) are
  IN, MIN, PIN, SCDC, SCD, SCDG, BN, SBDC, SBD, SBDG, DF, DFG,

And of those, IN, MIN, SCDC and SCD are sufficient for the next several months, with BN and DF coming next after those.

The relationships I care about are (hopefully) already present connecting RXCUIs of the above term types, and we can dump all the rest of the
relationships (unless VA supplies proof that they have license to use the outside sources of content).

All the rest of those AUIs, and any relationships among AUIs, are actually properties of the outside sources that go into RxNorm, and in fact
may be proprietary. Can descriptions have attributes (like string attributes, not relationships) of their own in the WB? If so, then just slap
everything else in as a description, with attributes for the SAB, SAUI, SCUI. If that doesn’t work, could we achieve the same thing with a Refset
that holds the description attributes? For example,

RXCUI   -- to associate the description with the concept
Description text
SAB
SAUI
SCUI
IsPref
…